CoqIDE: Improve preferences dialog (#19417)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/practical-tools/coqide.rst

.. _coqide_mainscreen:

.. image:: ../_static/coqide.png
   :alt: CoqIDE main screen

..  Here is the code used in the screenshot:

    Fixpoint power (x n : nat) {struct n} : nat :=
      match n with
      | O => 1
      | S m => x * power x m
      end.

    Notation "x ^ n" := (power x n).

    Theorem Fermat :
      (forall x y z n : nat, x^n + y^n = z^n -> n <= 2).
    Proof.
      Induction n.

The screenshot shows CoqIDE as the user is stepping through the file `Fermat.v`.

A menu bar and a tool bar appear at the top of the window. The left-hand panel shows
the current *script buffer*.  Each script buffer corresponds to a separate Coq process.
The upper right panel is the *proof panel*, which shows the goals to be proven.

The lower right panel has three tabs:

- the *Messages panel* shows messages produced by commands and tactics;

> - the *Errors panel* shows errors detected when running in :ref:`async mode <asyncmode>`;

Reviewer: Could you mention the Warnings tab, too?

Author: Yes. Is it still related to async mode? What should be the wording please?

Reviewer: How about "- the *Warnings panel* shows warnings detected when running in :ref:`async mode <asyncmode>`;"

- the *Jobs panel* shows information on the worker processes used by async mode.

The contents of the right-hand panels are specific to the currently displayed script.
Click the arrow icons to detach these panel into separate windows.  The proof panel

> can be detached from the *Windows/Detach Proof* menu item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can be detached with the *Windows/Detach Proof* menu item.
```

Author: OK, fixed.

You can also do queries by selecting some text, then choosing an
item from the *Queries* menu. The response will appear in the message panel.
The image above shows the result after selecting
``Nat.mul`` in the bottom line of the script panel, then choosing *Print*
from the *Queries* menu.

Compilation
-----------

The *Compile* menu offers direct commands to:

> + compile the current buffer;

Reviewer: FYI Semicolons or commas between bullet items is optional in English except for formal writing such as academic papers or government documents.

accessible from *Edit/Preferences* on the menu. There are several sections.

.. image:: ../_static/coqide-preferences-editor.png
   :alt: CoqIDE preferences dialog, Editor section

The *Files* section is devoted to file management: you may configure
automatic saving of files, by periodically saving the contents into
files named `#f#` for each opened file `f`. You may also activate the
*auto reload* feature: in case an opened file is modified on disk by a
third party, CoqIDE may read it again for you. Note that in the case
you edited that same file, you will be prompted to choose to either
discard your changes or not. The File charset encoding choice is
described below in :ref:`character-encoding-saved-files`.

The *Project* section enables you to change the default name for
project files and the way that project file options are used.

The *Editor* section (shown in the screenshot above) is for
customizing the editor. It includes in particular the ability
to activate an Emacs mode named micro-Proof-General
(use the Help menu to know more about the available bindings).

The *Appearance* section offers controls to set CoqIDE's window

> default size and the position of tabs.

Reviewer: Do you want to briefly cover all the sections?  You'd need to add Font, Colors, Tags, Shortcuts and Misc.  OTOH, I think most users are clever enough to discover these on their own.  Maybe just point out any "unusual" items.

Author: All sections are covered, so I don’t understand your comment…?

Reviewer: By "cover", I meant to briefly document what Colors, Tags, Shortcuts and Misc are for.  They are not described here.  Only the ones that are checked off here are described:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4f729356-ed69-4407-a6a0-8aa59f609fda)

Author: To me, they are documented enough…

that can be selected for the listed menus.  (The changes won't appear until
you close and reopen the Preferences dialog.)

> *Misc* – to be documented

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Misc*
```

"to be documented" not really needed; no one will be confused.

Author: This single word alone is confusing for me…

which is ``$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/coq`` if the environment variable ``$XDG_CONFIG_HOME``
is set.  If the variable isn't set, the directory is ``~/.config/coq`` on Linux
and `C:\\Users\\<USERNAME>\\AppData\\Local\\coq` on Windows.
Preferences are in the file `coqiderc` and key bindings are in the file `coqide.keys`.

.. _coqide_key_bindings:

.. _key_bindings:

Key bindings
~~~~~~~~~~~~

As explained just above, the *Edit/Preferences/Shortcuts* panel
offers buttons to modify in a few clicks the key bindings for a whole menu.
Here is a screenshot of the panel:

.. image:: ../_static/coqide-preferences-shortcuts.png
   :alt: CoqIDE preferences dialog, Shortcuts section

Each menu item in the GUI shows its key binding, if one has been defined,
on the right-hand side.  Typing the key binding is equivalent to selecting
the associated item from the menu.  On some systems, you can modify the
key binding ("accelerator") for a menu entry by going to the corresponding
menu item without releasing the mouse button, pressing the keys you want
for the new binding and then releasing the mouse button.

Alternatively, you can edit the configuration file directly.

> A GTK+ accelerator keymap is saved under the name `coqide.keys` in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Key bindings are saved in the file `coqide.keys` in
```

This file was just mentioned 25 lines above...

Author: OK, fixed.

Avoid assigning the same binding to multiple items.

If the same menu item name appears on multiple lines in the file, the value from the

> last line is used.  This is convenient for copying a group of changes from elsewhere –
> just insert the changes at the end of the file.  The next time CoqIDE terminates, it will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
last line is used.  This is convenient for copying a group of changes from elsewhere–just
insert the changes at the end of the file.  The next time CoqIDE terminates, it will
```

The doc follows American usage (not my choice BTW), which doesn't use spaces before and after an en dash.  While I couldn't find an internet reference, you can see this usage in the Chicago Manual of Style.

Author: Strange American usage. OK, restored.

Continue (F9)
  Continue processing the proof.  If you're not stopped in the debugger, this is
  equivalent to "Run to end" (Alt-End).

Step over (Alt-↓)
  When stopped in the debugger,
  execute the next tactic without stopping inside it.  If the debugger reaches
  a breakpoint in the tactic, it will stop.  This is the same key combination used

>   for *Forward one command* — if you're stopped in the debugger then it does a *Step over*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  for *Forward one command*—if you're stopped in the debugger then it does a *Step over*
```

Author: OK, restored.
